In this lecture, we create our first Java project and Java class.
So what is a Java project?
A project is a group of source files and the settings for which you build, run and debug those source
files.
Any idea or Java development has to take place within a project.
For applications that involve large codebases, it is often advantageous to split your application source
code into several projects.
So here we look at Java classes and objects.
To understand classes, we need to also talk about objects.
Java is an object orientated programming language, often referred to as O.P..
An object is an instance of a class, whereas a class is like a blueprint for that object.
For example, we might have a car class.
We might create two object instances of that class.
For example, one for Ferrari and another for BMW.
Both are based on the car class blueprint, but the Ferrari and BMW objects will have unique features.
For example, the top speed that a Ferrari might be higher than the BMW object.
So let's try to visualize this.
So imagine I have a car class and this class has free fields.
Make a model and top speed.
If I create objects based on this class.
So one on the left hand side for Ferrari and the other for BMW.
On the right hand side you can see that the properties of that make model and top speed are different.
On the left one, the make is Ferrari.
The model is for five Italia and it has a top speed of 210 miles an hour.
On the right object to object to is a make of BMW model of M3 and a top speed of 155 miles per hour.
So we will be writing a number of Java classes for out this course.
The cross will contain code.
So think of it of instructions that the computer will interpret to run our tests.
A cross will often contain fields, a constructor and methods and would learn more about that later.
For now.
Just remember we'll be creating a Java project in Eclipse and then a Java class within that project.
So before I open up a clips, the next thing that I'll be doing is creating a new directory where we're
going to store our workspace.
So I'm going to double click the resource folder.
And inside this, I'm going to right click select new and select folder and I'm going to give this folder
a name of work space.
So this is where our projects are going to be stored.
And then go to double click a clips, open it.
And you can see on this screen, we used the default workspace before, but this time I'm going to browse
and I'm going to navigate to that workspace folder.
So in the resource folder, I'm going to highlight the workspace folder and then click select folder.
That wouldn't update the workspace path to that new folder.
And now I'm going to click launch, which will open up Eclipse.
So what this means is that when we create a new project and save that project, those files are now
going to be listed in that new workspace folder.
So when Eclipse opens, you may see this welcome screen.
So I'm going to close this as we're not going to use it.
And on the left hand side, you'll see the Project Explorer with free options.
And one of those is to create a Java project.
But the usual way that will create a new driver project is food to file menu.
Select a new and select in Java project.
And if we select that, we're shown the following.
So we need to enter a project name.
And I'm going to call this intro with a capital I.
In the jury section, you'll see that the use an execution environment Jerry has been preselected.
But I'm going to take this use default Jerry, which is the JDK we installed in earlier lectures.
Once that's done, click finish and then you'll be asked to create a module which we don't need.
So we need to do is click don't create.
So if we look at the Project Explorer window will now see that there is an intro project folder.
So this is what we just created.
If we expand it, you'll see two other folders already system library, which contains all the Java
classes that come bundled with the JRA.
You also have a source folder which is currently empty.
So we're going to create a class on the resource folder.
If we right click it.
And select new and then select the class.
We should be presented with the following panel.
So I need to provide a class name and I'm going to get this class a name of call with a capital C.
So it's important to know that in Java all classes should begin with a capital letter.
You can also see it as an option to select public static void main.
And I'm going to take this and then click finish.
You then see that the class has been opened and it is now showing the core Java class.
You also see this public static void main method.
So in Java programs, the point from where the program starts is execution or simply the entry points
for Java program is the main method.
So this means when over my code, this is where the program will begin executed.
So inside that my method I'm right in system with a capital s dots out stop prints l end round brackets,
double quotes and inside those double quotes on right in I am a car class.
Full stop at the end of that line.
I'm going to add a semicolon.
If I go to file and then saved, save that class, I'm now able to run it.
So if I right click that class and go to run as new select Java application.
You'll see in the console that takes has now been output and it states I am a car class.
So we've created our first Java project and our first class called Car and was able to run that code
of the car class to output a message in the console window.
So I'm going to minimize the clips and I'm going to take a look at our workspace directory.
So under resources I'm going to click workspace.
And inside that workspace is an intro folder, which is the name of our project.
Inside that you'll see a source folder.
If I double click source folder, you'll see our core class.
So this is the hierarchy of our project.
So our car class falls inside the source folder, which belongs to the intro project.
So that is everything I wanted to cover in this lecture, and I hope it's giving you a good understanding
of how we can create a job, a project, and a job a class in the next lecture will begin download in
the classes we need to use Selenium web driver.